docs: gemma3n sup blog (#172)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel: docs/guides/gemma3n_blog.md

# 🚀 NeMo Framework Now Supports Google Gemma 3n: Efficient Multimodal Fine-tuning Made Simple

## Introduction

> Gemma 3n is a generative AI model that takes inputs from a variety of modalities, including images and audio, and is optimized for efficient resource usage and fast inference on everyday devices. It introduces innovations such as Per-Layer Embedding parameter caching and the MatFormer architecture, which help reduce compute and memory demands. Some key highlights:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gemma 3n](https://ai.google.dev/gemma/docs/gemma-3n) is a generative AI model that takes inputs from a variety of modalities, including images and audio, and is optimized for efficient resource usage and fast inference on everyday devices. It introduces innovations such as Per-Layer Embedding parameter caching and the [MatFormer](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07707) architecture, which help reduce compute and memory demands, making it ideal for lightweight deployments. Some key highlights:
```

- Pretrained checkpoints are available under the [Gemma 3n releases on Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-3n-685065323f5984ef315c93f4).

Today, we are excited to announce that NeMo Automodel now supports Gemma 3n, making it easier than ever to load, train, and inference with Gemma 3n models.

---

## ⚡ Fine-tuning Gemma 3n with NeMo Automodel

[NeMo Framework's Automodel path ("Nemo AutoModel")](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel) offers day-0 support for :hugs:Hugging Face models via a unified interface to load and finetune models across modalities, abstracting away backend complexity. With Gemma 3n support:

- Load models with a single `from_pretrained` call  
- Finetune models using full parameter training or PEFT(LoRA) with predefined recipes
- Accelerate training with kernel optimizations
- Leverage FSDP2/nvFSDP for efficient distributed training

Check out our [tutorial](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/huiyingl/gemma3n_sup_blog/docs/guides/gemma3_3n.md) on SFT and PEFT for both Gemma 3 and Gemma 3n models!

## 🔍 Observations

### Training Dynamics

> We noticed **large gradients during initial training steps** that quickly stabilize within the first hundred steps, but overall training convergence didn't reach the same level as Gemma 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the first hundred optimization steps we observed suspiciously large gradients that quickly stabilize. While the run remains numerically stable after this "warm-up," overall convergence still lags behind Gemma-3. 
```
